Page 1
Programming I: Introduction to Data
Classes: Thursdays, August 29 – October 3
Semester/Year Fall 2024/Mod 1
Professor Babak Zafari
E-mail babak.zafari@georgetown.edu
TA: Sheeba Moghal (sm3924@georgetown.edu)
Schedule Section 1 (HOYA): Tuesdays, 6:00pm to 7:20pm ET
Section 2 (SAXA): Tuesdays, 8:00pm to 9:20pm ET
Office Hours Dr. Zafari: Thursdays, 4:00 to 5:00 PM ET or by appointment
Sheeba Moghal (TA): Saturdays, 1 to 2:30 PM ET
Sheeba Moghal (TA): Mondays, 4 to 5:30 PM ET
Course Webpage Canvas
Live Sessions (Thursdays)
August 29 - September 5 - September 12 - September 19 - September 26 - October 3
Course Description
This course teaches students how to implement business analytics in R. This course covers
programming skills that will allow students to read in and organize data, present visually appealing
summaries of the data and to analyze it.
Course Objectives
● Program in R, including data structures, loops and creation of functions.
● Read in, organize, and get to know the data
● Visualize data in a useful way.
● Implement linear regression models
Course Materials
There is no required textbook for this course. All required materials, including slides for all lectures,
data files, or links to other resources will be posted on Canvas.
Software: You will be using R and RStudio in this course.
Course format and preparation for class: You are required to review the class recordings and
read assigned materials before every live session. Live class sessions will consist of concepts, and
practice work using. To be “active learners” and derive the most benefit from class discussions, please
make sure to follow all assigned materials before every class. During live class sessions, please
contribute to discussions and participate in hands-on work to familiarize yourself with the techniques
and tools we study.
Page 2
Canvas Website: There is a website for the course in Canvas containing required course content,
including videos and interactive media, and other resources. Announcements, handouts, and
additional resources will be posted. Please visit the site frequently and check for new course
announcements and postings. It is your responsibility to keep up with all announcements made on the
course website and take the appropriate actions.
Schedule
Pre-Course Work: 1. You should have RStudio set up on your computer as part of the course
requirements for OPAN 6601 - Statistics Business Analytics.
Live Session Topic
Week 1 Thursday / Aug 29
1. Get set up in R and RStudio.
2. Load data
3. Three major data types: numeric, logical, and string
4. Four data structures: vectors, matrices, data frames, and lists
5. Descriptive statistics
Week 2 Thursday / Sep 5
1. Lists in R
2. Loops in R
3. If Statement
4. Functions
5. Combine loops and functions
Week 3 Thursday / Sep 12
1. Overview
2. The tidyverse package
3. The dplyr package
4. Piping functions in R
5. Join functions in R
Week 4 Thursday / Sep 19
1. Components of visualization
2. Base R for viz
3. ggplot2
4. Applications
Week 5 Thursday / Sep 26
1. Getting to know the dataset
2. Summarizing categorical data
3. Summarizing numerical data
4. Multivariate Analysis and Outlier detection
5. Hypothesis test
Week 6 Thursday / Oct 3
1. Simple linear regression
2. Understanding regression output and fit measures
3. Making predictions
4. Categorical predictors
5. Multiple regression
NOTE: All deliverable deadlines are adjusted on Canvas to 3 AM ET the following
day the deadlines noted below:
Final exam period: Exam could be taken from October 11th to October 13 th
Final project period: October 4 th to October 18 th
Details on final exam and the project will be released on Canvas.
Page 3
Adhering to Policies: For the course to be effective and run smoothly, it is essential that you and I
strictly follow these course policies. Therefore, please read them carefully and contact me if you have
any questions or concerns. By taking this course you are agreeing to follow these policies. I will treat
these policies as a contract and to be fair to everyone, will not grant any exceptions.
Grading Policy: The final grade will be on the following assignments (Check the last page for
details):
• Assignments (individual) 40%
• Quizzes (individual) 15%
• Final Quiz (individual) 20%
• Final Project (learning group) 25%
Grades and Feedback on Assignments: Grades and feedbacks will be posted on Canvas.
Adhering to Policies: For the course to be effective and run smoothly, it is essential that you and I
strictly follow these course policies. Therefore, please read them carefully and contact me if you have
any questions or concerns. By taking this course you are agreeing to follow these policies. I will treat
these policies as a contract and to be fair to everyone, will not grant any exceptions.
Policy on Grade Appeals: If you believe you have found a grading error in the assignments
(unfortunately, they occasionally do happen), please provide a written review request within 1 week of the original
grade being distributed. All assignment grades are considered final after the 1-week review period.
Attendance: Please come to class well prepared having read the assigned material and done the
necessary analysis on the appropriate days. Empirical evidence shows that poor performance is
strongly correlated with poor class attendance. Therefore, I strongly encourage you to attend all live
classes. Please plan your travel and other activities around course deadlines. If you miss any class, it is
your responsibility to let the instructor know and cover the missed class material on your own. Make
sure you borrow a classmate’s notes.
Assistance: It is your responsibility to keep up and utilize all help and resources available to you. If
you find that you are falling behind or you feel that the course is difficult, do not hesitate to seek help.
Come to my office hours and ask questions during class. If you cannot meet during the office hours,
make an appointment for a mutually convenient time.
Live Session Classroom Etiquette, Ethics, and Georgetown University Honor Code: I expect
from you the same level of professionalism, both in your approach to work and in the “products” you
deliver, as your boss will. We expect all students to be live with their videos switched on, so the
instructors speak with you instead of a blank canvas. Your effort to log-in on-time, not to chat, and
not to engage in extraneous activities during class will be greatly appreciated.
You are expected to be familiar with the Georgetown University Honor System and the Honor code
and are bound by requirements. As a faculty member, I am also obligated to report any suspicion
related to violations of the Georgetown Honor System. For more details, please see
http://honorcouncil.georgetown.edu/. Cheating and plagiarism will not be tolerated. In order to
communicate expectations regarding group work vs. individual work, each assignment will be
designated a type. Please consult the community standards document, which will indicate the
guidelines for each assignment. Please ask me if you have any questions about this.
Page 4
Students agree that by taking this course, the written project reports may be subject to submission to
SafeAssign for the detection of plagiarism. SafeAssign compares the report with a huge pool of student
papers and reports from Georgetown and a host of other institutions. All submissions may be added
as source documents in the SafeAssign reference database solely for the purpose of detecting
plagiarism of such papers in the future.
Finally, the syllabus cannot identify all possible solutions which represent honor code violations and
is not meant to be comprehensive in this regard. Students are expected to abide by the intent and the
letter of the honor code and are required to report any honor code violations that are observed.For policies on all individual work, refer to the University and Academic Resources section
of the MSBA Program page.
For group assignments (project deliverables), we will follow rules for collaboration from the
Student Policies Document. For all deliverables, I restate the items below:
● Permitted with designated group, and expected that group members work together to
complete the assignment
● Group submits one project/assignment
● Group members receive the same grade (except the peer-evaluation part which is based on
the feedback received by team members or adjusted based on professor’s review of the team’s
feedbacks)
Time Expectations: Our online classes are designed to meet the same academic standards as our
place-based (face-to-face) courses. You can think of each module equal to the same level of
participation, commitment, and academic rigor as a face-to-face class. Students should plan on
spending approximately 8-10 hours per week on the work for each online module.
Max Mean Grade Policy: The course follows McDonough’s graduate school policy of the maximum
mean Grade Point Average (GPA) of 3.5.
Instructional Continuity: Please see Instructional Continuity section of the MSBA Student Syllabus
Policies document. Deadlines for cases and homework submissions will not be affected by the
university closure, unless otherwise notified.
Academic Accommodations: Please see Academic Accommodations section of the MSBA Student
Syllabus Policies document.
Religious Observances: Please see Religious Observances section of the MSBA Student Syllabus
Policies document.
Copyright of Course Materials: Please see Copyright of Course Materials section of the MSBA
Student Syllabus Policies document.
Netiquette Guidelines
To promote the highest degree of education possible, we ask each student to respect the opinions and
thoughts of other students and be courteous in the way that you choose to express yourself. Students
should be respectful and considerate of all opinions.
Page 5
In order for us to have meaningful discussions, we must try to genuinely understand what others are
saying and be open-minded about others’ opinions. If you want to persuade someone to see things
differently, it is much more effective to do so in a polite, non-threatening way rather than to do so
antagonistically. Everyone has insights to offer based on his/her experiences, and we can all learn
from each other. Civility is essential.
Office of the Student Ombuds (OSO) - Confidential | Independent | Impartial | Informal
Students should consider contacting the Student Ombuds when they want to talk to someone about
a university-related issue but don't know where to turn. The OSO is a confidential resource for
undergraduate and graduate students. It’s a safe setting for students to talk candidly about any
University-related issues or concerns they may have. Some reasons for students to visit the office may
be to address academic concerns, clarify administrative policies, discuss interpersonal conflicts, seek
coaching to handle a sensitive situation, seek resources if they're experiencing harassment, bullying or
other forms of intimidation, or if they want a place to safely express their frustration or concern.
Make an appointment with the Student Ombuds by writing studentombuds@georgetown.edu or
calling 202-784-1081. The OSO is located in Room 207 of the Reiss Building (across from Arrupe
Hall). More information is at studentombuds.georgetown.edu.
PROCTORIO
Proctorio is an online proctoring solution integrated in Canvas quizzes that offers identity verification,
test monitoring, and a number of other features to ensure academic integrity. Throughout an exam,
Proctorio will record the testing environment, and depending on the settings of the exam you may
need to provide a scan of the room. Therefore, you should select private spaces for the exam session
where disruptions are unlikely and where recording devices can be enabled. At the end of the exam,
Proctorio generates an automated report for the instructor that flags any suspicious behavior, such as
opening up new tabs on browsers, talking to others in the room, and looking away from the screen
for too long.
To use Proctorio students are required to:
• Use a computer with a functioning webcam and microphone (no tablet computers or mobile
devices)
• Use the Google Chrome browser or Microsoft Edge browser
• Install the Proctorio extension to the Google Chrome browser (students will complete this
during a practice test)
• Have a reliable internet connection
• Use a quiet private location
• Have a GU photo ID ready to show (if the instructor requires it)
You will take a practice quiz using Proctorio to test your systems and help prepare for an actual
test. 24/7 support is available for students by visiting Proctorio Support. See also Proctorio's How to
Get Started page.
Please note: If you have challenges finding a computer that meets the technical requirements above,
and/or concerns using an online proctoring tool, please contact your instructor who will work with
you to find an equivalent alternative.
Page 6
COURSE DELIVERABLESNOTE: All deliverable deadlines are adjusted on Canvas to 3 AM ET the following day the
deadlines noted below:
Assignments: 40%
There are four assignments for this course. Three of these assignments are a series of problem sets
designed to help you build skill in R. In each lab, you will analyze a given data set, interpret the results,
and answer several questions. The deadline for these assignments are posted on Canvas. They are
graded on effort and completion. In addition, there is a discussion assignment posted on
Canvas. Please allow a week for submission feedback.
Quizzes: 15%
There will be a total of six short quizzes for each module. These quizzes are mix of multiple choice
and short answer questions. Each week’s quiz will be released after the live session and will be due the
following Sunday at midnight. In addition, there might be one or two discussion assignments posted
on Canvas.
Comprehension Checks: 0%
Each week has its own comprehension check. These are designed to reinforce the learning goals of
that week. The questions are not graded, and the solution will be provided right after submitting the
answers.
Final Quiz: 20%
There will be a final quiz at the end of the semester. This quiz is comprehensive and will have a similar
format to the weekly quizzes. This quiz will be moderated using Proctorio.
Final Project: 25%
Your final project is a
shared project between two courses: this course and OPAN 6601 – Statistics
for Business Analytics. In the Final Project, you will apply the concepts, tools and techniques we study
throughout this course and statistics and data analysis techniques learned in OPAN 6601. This will be
group project based on pre-assigned study teams. The feedback of your group members about your
performance in the team accounts for 20% of your grade for this project. The rest of the grade will
be equally shared across the two courses, where each faculty will grade you for their tested discipline
accordingly. The full project details will be posted on Canvas as a separate document.
Time Expectations:
Our online classes are designed to meet the same academic standards as our place-based (face-to-face)
courses. You can think of each module equal to the same level of participation, commitment, and
academic rigor as a face-to-face class. Students should plan on spending approximately 8-10 hours per
week on the work for each online module.
